MOVEMENT MECHANICS

Note: each mechanic should be tested in a separate git branch, for experimenting. Only the general changes go in master

The mechanic possibilities in general are:

- Player - ACTION button. The action button makes the player perform a little dash. This means that the background objects move faster momentarily. (Is looks more like a dash in time rather than a dash in space. Maybe use it for the unifying theme).

- Player - SWITCH button. The switch button makes the player switch colors. The color switch follows a pattern (which allows the design of puzzles that require looping). There is a cooldown timer that prevents the player to loop fast enough (visually it should be an indicator of the cooldown, it can be a gradual color change on the player). This timer is a config variable and can be set to no cooldown at all.

- Music - The game obeys a song as the level, rhythm games a la Soundodger. The
puzzles are patterns that can be then recognizable by the player, based on shape,
color AND rhythm

Possibilities:

    - The player is invulnerable to the objects of its same color ALWAYS
    - The player is invulnerable to the objects of its same color ONLY WHEN DASHING
    - The player kills the objects of its same color when dashing

    --- Chain reaction branch
        - The dead enemies turn to black or a neutral color, and form masses. The masses leave bonuses to pick up. The game objective would be to score the most bonuses before dying, or dying n times

        - The dead enemies turn into masses of the color of the original enemy that was destroyed, and disappearing after some time, and score bonus points. The objective of the game would be having to choose always the correct color that leads to the recollection of the most bonus points.

    -- Evade branch

        - The player dies on contact with any solid color enemy. Dashing onto an enemy of the same color "disarms" it momentarily. This is, it reduces its size, becomes gray (maybe apply some shading to show it goes to another layer), and gradually recovers its original size. When it comes back, it is harmful again. This leads to the design of some interesting puzzles, that play with the notion that some sections are designed for you to time well your dashes and choose carefully what to dash.

        - Dashing only makes the player invulnerable for that moment, and the objective is to survive the longest. Puzzles are also in the form of some objectives requires the player not dashing, or dashing in the proper position.

        - In the evade branches the objective would be like in hexagon to score with timer, like in RUA, or to simply timer, like in Hexagon

    - Zen mode
        - The player never dies, and the objective is just to collect points until
        the level, or the song ends, or maybe indefinitely (and don't collect
        score, this would be less of a game than a conceptual experiment)

    - Free form vs fixed branches
        Free form is the player doesn't have a dash, but free movement on the
        screen is allowed. Fixed form is the most likely idea, and involves the player always being one side of the screen, like traditional runners or
        the original Bit.trip

    - Music controls
        If the game allows for music, allow movement controls also control
        playback, like pause, slowdown, and rewind. (dubstep in soundodger
        was mindblowing btw)
=== UPDATE 30 Nov

Mechanics decided:

The game will be a single mode, no zen.
There are two enemy categories: normal and damaging enemies.
Normal enemies are colored by one of four color.
Damaging enemies are colored distinctively, or have some special characteristic.
The player dies when it collides with a damaging object
The primary objective of the game is to collect the most points, so the score
    needs to be prominent.
The secondary objective of the game is to survive, as means to get the most
    points. This conflict is the main mechanic in the game, to decide whether
    to try risky maneuvers or play safe while collecting little score.
On collision with a normal enemy of the same faction, the player scores bonus
    points
There is no penalty for colliding with an enemy of different faction, but there
    is no bonus points. So enemies can be "missed"
The player is awarded some continuous bonus points for surviving, less rewarding
    than collecting bonuses. (This may change)
The player can form chains, that have a cooldown period. The chain is broken
    when the cooldown period expires. while collecting enemies, the cooldown
    timer increases. So it is possible to keep permanent chain state by keeping
    the cooldown increasing. The chain state is resetted when the player
    collides with an enemy or when the cooldown naturally expires
There will be a background music, and the level design would be based around
    the rhythm (right now only by approximation, proper level editing tools
    needed)
The enemies will use combination between them in number, grouping, color and
    movement to form a variety of more complex structures based on simple
    enemies.